For us, there is a lack
of representation
of Asians in all areas,
especially skateboarding.
'We created a
collective to make
Asian skaters more visible'
My name is Thomas Pham,
I'm 24 years old,
and I'm part of the
Bassac collective.
My name is Thien Thanh,
I'm 23 years old
and I've been part
of the Bassac collective
since the beginning.
Bassac is a skateboarding
collective
that aims to promote
the 13th district and
the Asian community.
We have an Instagram
account where we publish
photos, videos,
skateboarding edits.
We are trying to put
some references to
our identity and culture.
We do this through music
and images of our
neighbourhood.
I started skating
eight years ago.
At first, I did it
on my own.
Then, I made some friends
who are now part of Bassac.
I feel like it's a family.
Honestly, it has become
like a little ritual,
on weekends,
we get together,
we talk, skate
and laugh together.
Here we are on the slab
"Olympiad", it is like the
heart of the 13th district.
I'd say it's the Chinatown
of Paris.
It's a neighbourhood with
a lot of Southeast Asian
people, mostly.
There are lots
of restaurants and
plenty of shops.
The name Bassac
comes from a junction
of the Mekong river, we
thought it sounded good
and that it represented
our identities well.
In the collective,
we have people who have
Vietnamese,
Cambodian and Chaochow
origins.
These are minorities
that are not
necessarily represented
in the "mainstream"
Asian culture,
where we usually just see
Koreans, Japanese, etc.
In the community,
skating is a discipline
with a bad reputation.
Bassac is simply the desire
to make skating more
accessible for Asians,
for our community.
I think it's a shame
that people hesitate
to get involved because of
where they're from when
in fact, skating
is a very friendly sport
that does not
take into account
our person or
our ethnic background.
The goal is really
to encourage people
who otherwise wouldn't
dare to take the plunge.